>> Sreenivasan: SINCE THE 1980s,
MILLIONS OF AMERICAN WOMEN HAVE
USED FERTILITY TREATMENTS;
INCLUDING THE IMPLANTATION OF
EMBRYOS, TO BECOME PREGNANT.
BUT THE PROCESS IS EXPENSIVE,
AVERAGING $12,000.
EARLIER THIS MONTH, "REVEAL"--
PART OF THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING-- TOOK
AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT WHY THE
SUCCESS RATE MIGHT NOT BE THE
BEST WAY OF MEASURING A CLINIC
AND HOW THE GROWTH IN I.V.F.
TREATMENT HAS HELPED DRIVE UP
AMERICA'S TWIN BIRTH RATE BY 75%
SINCE 1980.
FOR MORE ON THIS STORY, I
RECENTLY SPOKE TO "REVEAL"
REPORTER BERNICE YEUNG.
FIRST OF ALL, YOU PICK OUT A
VERY, VERY TRAGIC CASE AND YOU
FOLLOW THAT THROUGH.
BUT IT STARTS TO HIGHLIGHT A
MUCH BIGGER PICTURE THAT
TRANSCENDS THE CASE IN POINT,
THAT THERE REALLY ISN'T A GREAT
WAY FOR A CONSUMER TO JUDGE
WHERE TO GO TO GET THIS
TREATMENT.
>> MY REPORTING PARTNER AND I
SPENT A YEAR LOOKING AT THE
FERTILITY FIELD AND WHAT STRUCK
US THERE WAS THAT THERE'S A
PATCHWORK OF REGULATIONS THAT
OVERSEE THE FERTILITY BUSINESS.
IT'S BASICALLY REGULATED LIKE
OTHER FIELDS OF MEDICINE, WHICH
MEANS IT'S PRETTY HANDS-OFF BUT
AT THE SAME TIME, GIVEN THE
ETHICAL AND INNOVATION
COMPONENTS TO I.V.F. AND
OTHER FERTILITY TREATMENTS, WE
JUST FOUND THERE WASN'T A LOT OF
INFORMATION PROVIDED TO
CONSUMERS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO GIVE ME AN
EXAMPLE HERE.
IF I WENT TO A WEBSITE TO TRY TO
COMPARE WHETHER OR NOT THIS IS
A GOOD DOCTOR OR THIS IS A GOOD
CLINIC, WHAT DO I HAVE ACCESS
TO AND WHAT AM I JUDGING THEM
BASED ON?
>> THE ONLY LEGISLATION AND
REGULATION OUT THERE THAT
EXPLICITLY DEALS WITH THE
FERTILITY FIELD IS A LAW THAT
REQUIRES CENTERS FOR DISEASE
CONTROL TO COLLECT SUCCESS
RATES FOR I.V.F. CLINICS.
WHAT WE FOUND IN OUR
INVESTIGATION WAS THAT THESE
SUCCESS RATES CAN BE MANIPULATED
AND EASILY MISUNDERSTOOD BY
PATIENTS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU HAVE A
CHART THAT LOOKS AT HOW OFTEN
U.S. I.V.F. CLINICS TRANSFERS
MORE THAN ONE EMBRYO.
AND IT IS STARTLING.
CONSIDERING THE C.D.C. SAYS
AND SUGGESTS THAT YOU SHOULD DO
ONE AT A TIME, THE NUMBER OF
CLINICS WHO ACTUALLY JUST NEVER
DO MORE THAN ONE AT A TIME
IS THE MINORITY BY A LONG SHOT.
>> I THINK 63 CLINICS IN THE
UNITED STATES DO ZERO SINGLE-
EMBRYO TRANSFERS IN WOMEN WHO
ARE THE YOUNGEST GROUP.
THIS IS A CONVERSATION YOU NEED
TO HAVE WITH YOUR PHYSICIAN.
IT SHOULDN'T JUST BE AN
ASSUMPTION THAT MORE THAN ONE
EMBRYO MEANS SUCCESS.
THERE ARE TECHNOLOGIES THAT
ALLOW FOR ONE EMBRYO AT A
TIME OVER SEVERAL CYCLES AND
SUCCESS IS JUST AS POSSIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS THE
INCENTIVE FOR A PHYSICIAN OR
CLINIC TO TRY TO IMPLANT MORE
THAN ONE EMBRYO AT A TIME?
>> DOCTORS AND CLINICS ARE
INCENTIVIZED IN THE WAY THAT THE
DATA IS GATHERED CURRENTLY BY
THE C.D.C TO TRANSFER MORE THAN
ONE EMBRYO AT A TIME BECAUSE
IT'S TRUE THAT USING MORE THAN
ONE EMBRYO AT A TIME INCREASES
YOUR CHANCES OF SUCCESS, BUT YOU
CAN RETRIEVE THOSE EGGS, DEVELOP
THEM INTO EMBRYOS AND THEN
FREEZE THOSE THAT YOU DON'T USE
THE FIRST TIME, AND HAVE SIMILAR
CHANCE OF SUCCESS, BUT ALSO
EXPERIENCE LESS POTENTIAL RISK
FOR THE MOTHER AND FOR THE BABY.
BECAUSE THERE'S LESS CHANCE OF
MULTIPLE GESTATION WHICH IS
AFFILIATED WITH A NUMBER OF
HEALTH AND MEDICAL ISSUES.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM THE
"REVEAL" WHICH IS IN THE CENTER
FOR INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING,
BERNICE YEUNG, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.